five years ago our next guest's first
album earned her two grammy nominations
her first lead role in a movie won her
golden globe and she's nominated
for an oscar for that movie too if my
man
ain't got no money
[Music]
[Applause]
the united states versus billy holiday
is on hulu now please welcome andra day
[Applause]
thanks for coming thanks for having me
you look fantastic thank you
thanks for coming in here thanks for
having me the first time yeah well hey
you can come every time it's fine
uh congratulations on your oscar nominee
you know it's funny because i think like
when you're a kid
probably you try to find your you know
maybe you listen to music
and imitate the people that you you like
and then um as a performer you then
do your own thing and you try not to
imitate people you like
and then sometimes that ability to
gets you an oscar nomination like in
this particular case
well we're still just imitating people
we like even as performers so
you know what i think you are a hundred
percent correct right
it's just an amalgamation of multiple
people right maybe billy holliday maybe
a little whitney maybe a little nina
simone
so yeah i'm just one big ass copycat
have you started writing a an acceptance
speech
in the event that you win or will you
just reuse what you said at the golden
globes pretty much that
i'm good about recycling you know yeah i
just want to make sure i get every name
it's so it's so nerve-wracking and
there's so much like pressure and it's
all
there it is right yeah it's a little
chaotic you know who'd be the worst
person for you to forget
well like lee yeah that'll be back to
everyone else
thank you no who would be the worst
person for me to get yeah lee would be
the worst billy
probably everybody or just like i'm just
not gonna say anybody
who will you bring to the oscar show
with you so well i'm actually either
bringing my older sister or my younger
brother i'ma just let him
box it out actually i'ma just see who
gets me like the best gift and then
that's what
that's a great i i like that idea i like
that idea
well the gift you should have a
presentation ceremony on like
saturday that's good you get the gift
and then you will decide between the two
of them yeah yeah exactly or we could
let america decide
you could go on the internet and take
the pressure off yourself
entirely yeah i i love my family a
little bit too much for that
so not mom dad not not coming no uh you
know
mom i i try to like basically you know
kind of keep track of how many times
each family member has been to an event
so
my mother's been my father's been
they've all been to like the white house
or the grammys and the
you know and my my father actually my
father uh one year at the grammys he met
adele he was just backstage chilling
with adele right before she was about to
go on and
and she remember he just like blurts out
like my daughter's andrew day and she
looks over at him she's like you must be
so proud
she's really crazy so yeah i'm gonna let
him like
cool his jets a little bit
yeah it's funny we expect our parents
and people around us to
stay cool in those situations but you
know cool is something that you it just
there's a hardening that goes on yeah no
absolutely like right now you know what
i mean i probably look pretty collected
you do you seem very cool right now
you're not have to look behind me
speaking of playing it cool i didn't
know this that
that you in a way um
oh would it be fair to say stevie wonder
discovered you
yeah i mean well okay the fair thing to
say is that
kai miller morris stephen wonder's wife
at the time discovered me so
um and then she see she actually saw a
clip of me singing i was just singing in
front of this like
strip mall in malibu it was like a shoe
store or something like that
and um she happened upon it on yeah she
did there was
somebody i was working with at the time
and he actually happened upon her in a
pastry shop and i was like oh okay
i still don't know if i believe this
story but it's fine it's the only one i
have
but um yeah he happened upon her in a
pastry shop and she liked my voice and
she played it for stevie and he liked it
and so they
they orchestrated a call and so i was i
i will never forget that moment because
it felt like a meteor hit
my not even my house like my whole world
because i was living
behind a 7-eleven to the right of a
dumpster
i know because of that and stevie wonder
called to say i love you i guess is what
he did
yeah pretty much yeah and then those
three words you could do this all night
actually
yeah and after you got off the phone you
must your head must have been spinning
well it was yeah i mean to be honest
with you i can't remember
everything that happened because i was
just sort of in a daze
all i remember specifically was that he
had
one song like a specific song that he
was like i think this would be great to
write with you and
then i remember thinking that's a really
long title and then the other thing
was he asked me what my sign was and i
was like oh for real okay cool we're
doing this i'm a capricorn
oh yeah he wanted to make sure the
zodiac
good thing boy good thing it matched up
or else you had to spend a lot of time
in the studio together you know
but apparently nobody likes capricorns
oh is that true
yeah why not i did one of those i looked
at one of those compatibility things
and it was like this person's match with
this and this matches with this and this
is
everybody somebody out there is like
girl rising and moons and all that i
know i know y'all disappointed in me
right now
but um but i looked at it it was like
capricorns
are compatible with capricorns i was
like damn that's it
so when's your birthday i'm a scorpio on
november 13th
all right we'll see how that works out
yeah well
i feel like we're getting along i do i
think so yeah so then what's the next
step
how long before you see stevie wonder
after that telephone call
it wasn't that long honestly they they
set up a dinner we we're out of dinner
was it mr charles nah i don't know but
the food was really good and i've never
had food this good before you know i was
like this is definitely
a rich restaurant i wish i could have
remembered it but um yeah so we had a
dinner he he introduced me ultimately he
introduced me to
the um actually oh my god i'm tripping
it was a lot of time in between that
because the person i was working with
unfortunately at the time was not
the most forthright person and so i got
the message that i wasn't good enough
where they didn't like me
um and i said okay cool you know i was
like after the dinner
no no no this was before the dinner oh
and then um
and so then they actually held on to my
information and reached out to me like a
year later and was like we really hope
you're still interested so
i heard it was not the truth and then we
had the dinner and he introduced me to
adrian girvin's who did my first album
wow how about that that's a journey for
sure have you had the chance to sing
with stevie
yeah we sang together a few times at
madison square garden we also sang at
the staples center
it is the most nerve-wracking experience
ever
it's just like because you know first of
all his songs are not easy songs to sing
you know they seem
okay i'm just gonna say this this isn't
rude you know what i mean for those who
know they can sing great for those who
know they can't
you know you can't you know but um it's
not it's for a layperson singing maybe
you know but for somebody who really
knows music
you know the chords are so complex so it
was it was just incredible i was just
trying not to mess it up
yeah well you're going to do a song
for us tonight by the way i just wanted
to tell you when someone from your
record company texted this to our music
producer um he thought that he'd
accidentally been something
sent something he shouldn't have oh
the new single is called
phone dies and the united states versus
billie holiday
is on hulu now if you want to watch this
uh oscar-nominated performance thanks
for being here you're going to sing when
we come back andrew dave
we'll be right back thanks for watching
remember every time you click the
subscribe button
one of your enemies gets destroyed